# Module 10: Scaling Services

# Lab: Load Balancing Azure Web Apps

1. Wherever you see a path to file starting at [Repository Root], replace it with the absolute path to the directory in which the 20487 repository resides.
   e.g. - you cloned or extracted the 20487 repository to C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487, then the following path: [Repository Root]\AllFiles\20487D\Mod01 will become C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487\AllFiles\20487D\Mod01
2. Wherever you see **{YourInitials}**, replace it with your actual initials.(for example, the initials for John Do will be jd).
3. Before performing the demonstration, you should allow some time for the provisioning of the different Azure resources required for the demonstration. It is recommended to review the demonstrations before the actual class and identify the resources and then prepare them beforehand to save classroom time.

### Exercise 1: Prepare the application for load-balancing

#### Task 1: Add code to print out the server name

1. Open **Command Line**.
2. Change directory to the starter project, run the following command in the **Command Line**:
   ```bash
   cd [Repository Root]\AllFiles\Mod10\Labfiles\Lab1\Setup
   ```
3. Restore all dependencies and tools of a project use the following command in the **Command Line**:
   ```base
   dotnet restore
   ```
4. Open the project in **VSCode** and paste the following command and press enter:
   ```bash
   code .
   ```
5. Right click on **BlueYonder.Flights.Service** and select **New Folder** and name it **Middleware**.
6. Right click on **Middleware** folder and select **New File** and name it **ExceptionHandlingMiddleware.cs** then press **Enter**
7. Paste the following **using** to the class.
   ```cs
   using System;
   using System.Collections.Generic;
   using System.Linq;
   using System.Net;
   using System.Threading.Tasks;
   using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder;
   using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http;
   using Newtonsoft.Json;
   ```
8. Paste the following code to add namespace.

   ```cs
   namespace BlueYonder.Flights.Service.Middleware
   {

   }
   ```

9. Paste the following code in namespace brackets to class declaration:

   ```cs
   public class MachineNameMiddleware
   {

   }
   ```

10. Paste the following code inside the class brackets to add a constructor:

    ```cs
    private readonly RequestDelegate _next;

    public MachineNameMiddleware(RequestDelegate next)
    {
        _next = next;
    }
    ```

11. Paste the following code to add **Invoke** method that add **X-BlueYonder-Server** header with the **MachineName** as value:

    ```cs
    public async Task Invoke(HttpContext httpContext)
    {
        httpContext.Response.Headers.Add("X-BlueYonder-Server", Environment.MachineName);

        await _next(httpContext);
    }
    ```

12. Paste the following code outside the class brackets but inside namespace brackets to add **extension method** for **IApplicationBuilder**:
    ```cs
    public static class MachineNameMiddlewareExtensions
    {
        public static IApplicationBuilder UseMachineNameMiddleware(this IApplicationBuilder builder)
        {
            return builder.UseMiddleware<MachineNameMiddleware>();
        }
    }
    ```
13. Inside **BlueYonder.Flights.Service** project, locate and click on **Startup** file:
14. Paste the following **using**:
    ```cs
    using BlueYonder.Flights.Service.Middleware;
    ```
15. Locate **Configure** method and paste the following code to use **Exception Handling Middleware**:
    ```cs
    app.UseMachineNameMiddleware();
    ```
16. Switch to **Command Line**.
17. Change directory to the starter project, run the following command in the **Command Line**:
   ```bash
   cd [Repository Root]\AllFiles\Mod10\Labfiles\Lab1\Setup\Code
   ```
18. Run the following command to run the server:
    ```bash
    dotnet run
    ```

#### Task 2: Deploy the application to an Azure Web App

1. Open **PowerShell** as **Administrator**.
2. In the **User Account Control** modal, click **Yes**.
3. Run the following command: **Install-Module azurerm -AllowClobber -MinimumVersion 5.4.1**.
4. Navigate to **[repository root]\Mod10\Labfiles\Lab1\Setup**.
5. Run the following command:
   ```batch
    .\createAzureServices.ps1
   ```
6. You will be asked to supply a **Subscription ID**, which you can get by performing the following steps:
   1. Open a browser and nevigate to **http://portal.azure.com**. If a page appears, asking for your email address, type your email address, and then click Continue. Wait for the sign-in page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click Sign In.
   2. In the search text box on the top bar, type **Cost** and then in results click **Cost Management + Billing(Preview)**. The **Cost Management + Billing** window should open.
   3. Under **BILLING ACCOUNT**, click **Subscriptions**.
   4. Under **My subscriptions**, you should have at least one subscription. Click on the subscription that you want to use.
   5. Copy the value from **Subscription ID**, and then paste it at the **PowerShell** prompt.
7. In the **Sign in** window that appears, enter your details, and then sign in.
8. In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, follow the on-screen instructions. Wait for the deployment to complete successfully.
9. Write down the name of the Azure App Service that is created.
10. Switch to **http://portal.azure.com**.
11. Click on **App Services** on the left menu panel, to display all the **App Services**.
12. Click on **blueyonder{YourInitials}** app service.
13. On the left panel, locate the **Settings** blade.
14. Click on **Scale up (App Service plan)** inside **Settings** section.
15. Click on **Dev/Test** on the top of page.
16. Change the **Recommended pricing tiers** to **B1**, and click **Apply**.
17. Wait until all changes saved.

#### Task 3: Configure the Web App for multiple instances

1. Go to **http://portal.azure.com**.
2. Click on **App Services** on the left menu panel, to display all the **App Services**.
3. Click on the newly created web app **blueyonder{YourInitials}**.
4. On the left panel, locate the **Settings** blade.
5. Click on **Scale out (App Service plan)** inside **Settings** section.
6. Click **Configure** in the top menu.
7. To increate the instances, locate the **Override condition** scale, and increase it to **2**.
8. Click on **Save**.
9. Wait until all changes saved.

### Exercise 2: Test the load balancing with instance affinity

#### Task 1: Browse the website multiple times

1. Open **Microsoft Edge** browser.
2. Navigate to:
   ```url
   https://blueyonder{YourInitials}.azurewebsites.net/api/destinations.
   ```
3. Check that you are getting a good response like the following:
   ```json
   [
     { "id": 1, "cityName": "Seattle", "airport": "Sea-Tac" },
     { "id": 2, "cityName": "New-york", "airport": "JFK" },
     { "id": 3, "cityName": "Amsterdam", "airport": "Schiphol" },
     { "id": 4, "cityName": "London", "airport": "Heathrow" },
     { "id": 5, "cityName": "Paris", "airport": "Charles De Gaulle" }
   ]
   ```

#### Task 2: Verify you reached the same server each time

1. In the **Microsoft Edge** browser.
2. Open **Develpper Tools** by click on the three dot on the top bar and then select **Develpper Tools** or by pressing **F12**.
3. In the **Develpper Tools** navigate to **Network**.
4. Navigate to the following url:
   ```url
   https://blueyonder{YourInitials}.azurewebsites.net/api/destinations.
   ```
5. View the respone with all the destinations as the task above.
6. In **Network** tab locate the url and check the following info:
   -  Locate the **X-BlueYonder-Server** in **Response Headers** section and verified that the **Status** is **200**.
     > **Note:** You should always get the same value in X-BlueYonder-Server.

### Exercise 3: Test the load balancing without affinity

#### Task 1: Update the application to not use affinity

1. Open **http://portal.azure.com** in **Microsoft Edge** browser.
2. Click on **App Services** on the left menu panel, to display all the **App Services**.
3. Click on the newly created web app **blueyonder{YourInitials}**.
4. On the left panel, locate the **Settings** blade.
5. Click on **Application settings** inside **Settings** section.
6. In **General settings**, locate the **ARR Affinity** switch.
7. Switch the **ARR Affinity** to **Off**.
8. Click on **Save**.
9. Wait until all changes saved.

#### Task 2: Retest and verify you reached more than one instance

1. In the **Microsoft Edge** browser.
2. Open **Develpper Tools** by click on the three dot on the top bar and then select **Develpper Tools** or by pressing **F12**.
3. In the **Develpper Tools** navigate to **Network**.
4. Navigate to the following url:
   ```url
   https://blueyonder{YourInitials}.azurewebsites.net/api/destinations.
   ```
5. View the respone with all the destinations as the task above.
6. In **Network** tab locate the url and check the following info:
   - Locate the **X-BlueYonder-Server** in **Response Headers** section and verified that the **Status** is **200**.
    > **Note:** You should always get the same value in X-BlueYonder-Server.



