
# Lab: Monitoring Azure Web Apps with Application Insights

### Preparation Steps

1. Open **PowerShell** as **Administrator**.
2. In the **User Account Control** modal, click **Yes**.
3. Run the following command: **Install-Module azurerm -AllowClobber -MinimumVersion 5.4.1**.
<<<<<<< HEAD
4. Navigate to **[repository root]\AllFiles\Mo8\Labfiles\Lab2\Setup**.
=======
4. Navigate to **[repository root]\AllFiles\Mod08\Labfiles\Lab2\Setup**.
>>>>>>> mod08-lab2
5. Run the following command:
    ```batch
     .\createAzureServices.ps1
    ```
6. You will be asked to supply a **Subscription ID**, which you can get by performing the following steps:
    1. Open a browser and navigate to **http://portal.azure.com**. If a page appears, asking for your email address, type your email address, and then click Continue. Wait for the sign-in page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click Sign In.
    2. In the search text box on the top bar, type **Cost** and then in results click **Cost Management + Billing(Preview)**. The **Cost Management + Billing** window should open.
    3. Under **BILLING ACCOUNT**, click **Subscriptions**.
    4. Under **My subscriptions**, you should have at least one subscription. Click on the subscription that you want to use.
    5. Copy the value from **Subscription ID**, and then paste it at the **PowerShell** prompt. 
7. In the **Sign in** window that appears, enter your details, and then sign in.
8. In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, follow the on-screen instructions. Wait for the deployment to complete successfully.
9. Write down the name of the Azure App Service that is created.
10. Close **PowerShell** window.


### Exercise 1: Add the Application Insights SDK

#### Task 1: Add the Application Insights SDK to the web service project

1. Open **Azure Portal**.
2. Click on **All resources** then click on **blueyondermod08lab2**{YourInitials}.
3. Click on **Application Insights** in the **SETTINGS** section on the left menu.
4. Click on **Setup Application Insights** then add the following information:
    >**Note:** First time need to click on **Setup Application Insights** link.
    - Select **Create new resource**.
    - In **Runtime/Framework** select **ASP.NET Core**.
    - Click on **OK**.
    - In **Apply monitoring settings** popup click on **Continue**.
5. Click on **View more in Application Insights** in the **Application Insights** blade.
6. Copy **Instrumentation Key**.
7. Open **Command Line**.
8. Run the following command to change directory to **Starter** folder:
    ```bash
    cd [Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod08\Labfiles\Lab2\Starter
    ```
9.  Run the following command to install :
    ```base
    dotnet add package Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.AspNetCore --version=2.4.1
    ```
10. Run the following command to open the project in **VSCode**: 
    ```bash
    code .
    ```
11. Click on **appsettings.json** and add the following code:
    ```json
    "ApplicationInsights": {
        "InstrumentationKey": "{InstrumentationKey}"
    }
    ```
12. Replace the **InstrumentationKey** key with value copied in point 6.
13. Locate **CreateWebHostBuilder** lamda in **Progam** class and replace it with the following code:
    ```cs
    public static IWebHostBuilder CreateWebHostBuilder(string[] args) =>
            WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
                .UseStartup<Startup>()
                .UseApplicationInsights();
    ```


#### Task 2: Publish the service to Azure Web Apps

1. Switch to **Command Line**.
2. Paste the following command to publish the service:
    ```bash
    dotnet publish /p:PublishProfile=Azure /p:Configuration=Release
    ```

### Exercise 2: Load test the web service

#### Task 1: Create a new performance test in the Azure Portal

1. Switch to **Azure Portal**.
2. Click on **All resources** then click on **blueyondermod08lab2**{YourInitials} type of **Application Insights**.
3. Click on **Performance test** in the **Configure** section on the left menu.
4. Click on **Set Organization** on the top menu bar and add the following information:
    - In **Organization Settings** Click on **Or Create New** and type **blueyondervsts**{YourInitials}
    - In **Subscription** click on  **Azure Pass**.
    - Click on **OK**.
5. Click on **All resources** then click on **blueyondervsts**.
6. Click on **Url** value to naviage to **VSTS**.
7. Login with credential in **VSTS**
8. In **Create new project**  add the following information to create new project in **VSTS**:
    - In **Project name** type **Blueyonder**.
    - Click on **Create Project**.

#### Task 2: Run the performance test for a few minutes with multiple simulated users

1. Switch to **Azure Portal**.
2. Click on **All resources** then click on **blueyondermod08lab2**{YourInitials} type of **Application Insights**.
3. Click on **Performance test** in the **Configure** section on the left menu.
4. Click on **New** on the top menu bar and add the following information:
    - Click on **CONFIGURE TEST USING**:
        - In **TEST TYPE** select **Manual Test**.
        - In **URL** type **http://blueyondermod08lab2{YourInitials}.azurewebsites.net/api/destinations**.
        - Click on **Done**.
    - In **Name** type **DestinationsTest**.
    - In **USER LOAD** type **20**.
    - In **DURATION (MINUTES)** type **5**.
    - Click on **Run test**.

### Exercise 3: Analyze the performance results

#### Task 1: View the overall website performance and request metrics

1. Switch to **VSTS**.
2. Hover over **Test Plans** then click on **Load test** on the top menu bar.
3. Double click on **DestinationsTest**.
4. View the Summary of the test.
5. Click on **Charts** tab to view the **Performance** of the test.

#### Task 2: Examine specific requests and view their timelines and dependencies

1. Scroll down and locate **OPERATION NAME**.
2. Click on **GET destinations/Get**.
3. View on the right side info about the request.

#### Task 3: Drill down into the Application Insights Profiler results for slow requests

1. Click on **Samples** on the right bottom corner.
2. View all the request and click the request with high **duration** time.
3. View all the details about the request.