# Lab: Querying Graph Data with CosmosDB 

### Exercise 1: Create the CosmosDB graph database

#### Task 1: Create a new CosmosDB graph database in the Azure Portal

1. Open **Microsoft Edge** browser.
2. Navigate to **https://portal.azure.com**.
3. If a page appears asking for your email address, enter your email address, and then click **Next** and enter your password, and then click **Sign In**.
4. If the **Stay signed in?** dialog appears, click **Yes**.
   >**Note**: During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account that you previously used, and then continue to provide your credentials.
5. Click **+ Create a resource** on the left menu panel.
6. Type in the search box **Azure Cosmos DB** and click on **Create** then add the following information:
    - In **ID** type **blueyonder-destinations**{YourInitials}.
    - In **API** select **Gremlin (graph)**.
    - In **Resource Group** select **Create new** and type **Mod07Lab2**.
    - Click on **Create** and wait that resource is created.
7. Click on **All resource** on the left menu panel, to display all the **Resources**.
8. Click on **blueyonder-destinations**{YourInitials} **Azure Cosmos DB account**.
9. Click on **+ Add Graph** in the top menu then add the following information:
    - In **Database id** check **Create new** and type **blueyonder**.
    - In **Graph Id** type **traveler**.
    - Click on **OK**.

#### Task 2: Run a script to import itinerary data (flights and destinations) to the database

1. Click on **Upload** in the top menu bar to upload all the data with JOSN file.
    - Click on the **folder** icon and select **GraphData.json** file in the path **[Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod07\LabFiles\Lab2\Assets**.
    - Click on **Upload**.
2. Click on **Data Explorer**.
3. Expand **blueyonder** then expand **traveler** and click on **Graph**.
4. In textbox type **g.V()** and click on **Execute Gremlin Query** to execute the gremalin query to return all the **vertex**
    > **Note:** The graph has attractions that are connected to a city and city connected to another city by flight.

#### Task 3: Explore the generated database

1. Click on **Paris** vertex to see all the edges that connected from **Paris**.
2. Double click on the small vertex under **Paris** to see all the attractions in **Paris**.
3. Click on **JSON** tab to view the result in **JSON** format.
4. In textbox type **g.V('Moscow')** then click on **Execute Gremlin Query**.
5. View the **Moscow** vertex data. 

### Exercise 2: Query the CosmosDB database

#### Task 1: Add a query to return related attractions from the itinerary service

1. Click on **Keys** under **SETTINGS** section.
2. Copy the **PRIMARY KEY** for the next step.
3. Open **Command Line**.
4. Run the following command to change directory to the starter project:
    ```bash
    cd [Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod07\LabFiles\Lab2\Starter\BlueYonder.Itineraries.Service
    ```
5. Install the following package **Gremlin.Net**:
    ```bash
     dotnet add package Gremlin.Net --version=3.3.3
    ```
6. Run the following command to open the project in **VSCode**:
    ```bash
    code .
    ```
7. Expand **BlueYonder.Itineraries.Service** project then click on **appsettings.json**.
8. In **HostName** replace **{YourInitials}**.
9. In **Authkey** paste the **PRIMARY KEY** from the perviest task. 
10. Expand **Controllers** folder and click on **DestinationController**.
11. Paste the following **using**:
    ```cs
    using Gremlin.Net.Driver;
    using Gremlin.Net.Structure.IO.GraphSON;
    ```
12. Paste the following code to add **GremlinServer** field:
    ```cs
    private GremlinServer _gremlinServer;
    ```
13. Paste the following code to add the **Constructor**:
    ```cs
    public DestinationController(IConfiguration configuration)
    {
        string authKey =  configuration["Authkey"];
        string hostname = configuration["HostName"];
        string database = "blueyonder";
        string collection = "traveler";
        int port = 443;
        _gremlinServer = new GremlinServer(hostname, port, enableSsl: true,
                                             username: "/dbs/" + database + "/colls/" + collection,
                                             password: authKey);
    }
    ```
14. Locate **GetAttractions** method.
15. Paste the following code to quary all the attractions in destination fliter by distance.
    ```cs
    string gremlinQuary = $"g.V('{destination}').inE('located-in').has('distance', lt({distanceKm})).outV()";
    ```
16. Paste the following code to execute the quary:
    ```cs
    using (var client = new GremlinClient(_gremlinServer, new GraphSON2Reader(), new GraphSON2Writer(), GremlinClient.GraphSON2MimeType))
    {
        var result = await client.SubmitAsync<dynamic>(gremlinQuary);
        return JsonConvert.SerializeObject(result); ;
    }
    ```

#### Task 2: Add a query to return possible interesting stop-overs to a destination

1. Locate **GetStopOvers** method.
2. Paste the following code to quary all the flight's from **source** to **destination** filter by **maxDurationHours**.
    ```cs
    ``` 
3. Paste the following code to execute the quary:
    ```cs
    using (var client = new GremlinClient(_gremlinServer, new GraphSON2Reader(), new GraphSON2Writer(), GremlinClient.GraphSON2MimeType))
    {
        var result = await client.SubmitAsync<dynamic>(gremlinQuary);
        return JsonConvert.SerializeObject(result); ;
    }

#### Task 3: Test the new service operations from a browser

1. Switch to **Command Line**.
2. Run the following command to run the service:
    ```cd
    dotnet run
    ```
3. Open **Microsoft Edge** browser.
4. Navigate to the following url:
    ```url
    https://localhost:5001/api/destination/attractions/Paris/4
    ```
5. Verified that json respone with attractions are display  without **Eiffel Tower**.
6. Navigate to the following url:
    ```url
    https://localhost:5001/api/destination/attractions/Paris/6
    ```
7. Verified that json respone with attractions are display with **Eiffel Tower**.
