# Module 6: Deploying and Managing Services

# Lab: Deploying an ASP.NET Core Web Service on Linux

1. Wherever a path to a file starts at *[Repository Root]*, replace it with the absolute path to the directory in which the 20487 repository resides. For example, if you cloned or extracted the 20487 repository to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487**, change the path: *[Repository Root]***\AllFiles\20487D\Mod01** to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487\AllFiles\20487D\Mod01**.
2. Wherever *{YourInitials}* appears, replace it with your actual initials. For example, the initials for **John Doe** will be **jd**.
3. Before performing the demonstration, you should allow some time for the provisioning of the different Microsoft Azure resources required for the demonstration. You should review the demonstrations before the actual class, identify the resources, and then prepare them beforehand to save classroom time.

### Exercise 1: Publishing the ASP.NET Core Web Service for Linux

#### Task 1: Use a Docker container to build a self-contained ASP.NET Core web service

1. Open the command prompt.
2. To change the directory to the **Starter** folder, at the command prompt, run the following command:
    ```bash
    cd [Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod06\Labfiles\Exercise1\Starter
    ```
3. To open the project in Microsoft Visual Studio Code, run the following command: 
    ```bash
    code .
    ```
4. In the **EXPLORER** panel, right-click the **Starter** area, select **New File**, and then name it **.dockerignore**.
   >**Note**: **.dockerignore** it is for exclude files and directories from the containers
5. Click the **.dockerignore** file and paste the following code:
    ```sh
    .dockerignore
    .env
    .git
    .gitignore
    .vs
    .vscode
    docker-compose.yml
    docker-compose.*.yml
    */bin
    */obj
    ```
6. Right-click **BlueYonder.Flights.Service**, select **New File**, and then name it **Dockerfile**.
7. To get the **dotnet:2.1-sdk** image, click the **Dockerfile** file and paste the following code:
    ```dh
    FROM microsoft/dotnet:2.1-sdk AS build-env
    WORKDIR /app
    ```
8. To copy and restore the project, paste the following code:
    ```sh
    # Copy csproj and restore as distinct layers
    COPY *.csproj ./
    RUN dotnet restore
    ```
9. To build the project, paste the following code:
    ```sh
    # Copy everything else and build
    COPY . ./
    RUN dotnet publish -c Release -o out
    ```
10. To get the **dotnet:2.1-aspnetcore-runtime** image and build it, paste the following code:
    ```sh
    # Build runtime image
    FROM microsoft/dotnet:2.1-aspnetcore-runtime
    WORKDIR /app
    COPY --from=build-env /app/out .
    ENTRYPOINT ["dotnet", "BlueYonder.Flights.Service.dll"]
    ```

#### Task 2: Use a Linux Docker container to host the web service

1. Switch to the command prompt.
2. To change the directory to the **BlueYonder.Flights.Service** project, at the command prompt, run the following command: 
    ```bash
    cd BlueYonder.Flights.Service
    ```
3. To build the container and name it **blueYonder**, run the following command:
    ```bash
    docker build -t blueyonder .
    ```
4. To run the container on port **1234**, run the following command:
    ```bash
    docker run -d -p 1234:80 --name webapp blueyonder
    ```
5. Open Microsoft Edge.
6. Navigate to the following URL:
    ```url
    http://localhost:1234/api/destinations
    ```
7. The **GET** response should return a JSON with all the destinations.

### Exercise 2: Configuring Nginx as a Reverse Proxy

#### Task 1: Use Nginx in a container to reverse proxy the ASP.NET web service

1. Switch to Visual Studio Code.
2. In the **EXPLORER** panel, right-click the **Starter** area, select **New Folder**, and then name it **nginx**.
3. Right-click the **nginx** folder, select **New File**, and then name it **nginx.conf**.
4. In the new file, paste the following code:
    ```sh
    user  nginx;
    worker_processes  1;

    error_log  /var/log/nginx/error.log warn;
    pid        /var/run/nginx.pid;

    events {
        worker_connections  1024;
    }

    http {
      server {
        listen 80 default_server;

        location /test {
          proxy_pass http://host.docker.internal:1234;
          rewrite ^/test(.*)$ $1 break;
        }
      }
    }
    ```
    >**Note**: Check **proxy_pass**. This is the path of the reverse proxy and **test** is what should be added for using **proxy_pass**.
5. Right-click the **nginx** folder, select **New File**, and then name it **dockerfile**.
6. To copy the **nginx** image and change the **conf** file, paste the following code:
    ```sh   
    FROM nginx
   
    COPY ./nginx.conf /etc/nginx/

    CMD ["nginx", "-g", "daemon off;"]
    ```
7. Switch to the command prompt.
8. To change the directory to the **nginx** folder, at the command prompt,  run the following command:
    ```bash
    cd nginx
    ```
9. To build the container and name it **nginxproxy**, run the following command:
    ```bash
    docker build -t nginxproxy .
    ```
10. To run **nginx** on port **1235**, run the following command:
    ```bash
    docker run -d -p 1235:80 --name ngninx nginxproxy
    ```
11. Switch to Microsoft Edge.
12. Navigate to the following URL:
    ```url
    http://localhost:1235/test/api/destinations
    ```
13. The **GET** response should return a JSON with all the destinations similar to the response in Exercise 1.
14. Switch to the command prompt.

15. To stop the **webapp** process, at the command prompt, run the following command:
    ```bash
    docker stop webapp
    ```
16. To stop the **ngninx** process, run the following command:
    ```bash
    docker stop ngninx
    ```

#### Task 2: Create a Docker Compose file for bringing up both containers

1. Switch to Visual Studio Code.
2. Right-click the **nginx** folder, select **New File**, and then name it **docker-compose.yml**.
3. To compose all the services that need to be running, paste the following code:
    ```sh
    version: '3'
    services:
      nginx:
        image: nginxproxy
        ports:
         - "1235:80"
      webapp:
        image: "blueyonder"
    ```
4. In the **nginx** folder, click **nginx.conf**.
5. Locate **proxy_pass** and change the URL to the following URL:
    ```url
    http://webapp:80
    ```
6. Switch to the command prompt.
7. To build the container after the change, at the command prompt, run the following command:
    ```bash
    docker build -t nginxproxy .
    ```
8. To run **docker-compose**, run the following code:
    ```bash
    docker-compose up
    ```
9. Switch to Microsoft Edge.
10. Navigate to the following URL:
    ```url
    http://localhost:1235/test/api/destinations
    ```
11. The **GET** response should return a JSON with all the destinations similar to that in Exercise 1.
12. Switch to the command prompt.
13. Stop all the services in **docker-compose** and press Ctrl + C.
14. Close all open windows.

# Lab: Deploying to Staging and Production

### Exercise 1: Deploying the Application to Production

#### Task 1: Create a standard web app

1. Open Microsoft Edge.
2. Navigate to **https://portal.azure.com**.
3. If a page appears asking for your email address, enter your email address, click **Next**, enter your password, and then click **Sign In**.
4. If the **Stay signed in?** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.
   >**Note**: During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account that you previously used, and then continue to provide your credentials.
5. To display all the app services, on the left menu panel, click **App Services**.
    - To select the app service template, in the **App Services** blade, click **Add**.
    - In the **Web** blade, click **Web App**. An overview of the template will be shown. Click **Create**.
6. To create a new web app, enter the following fields:
    - In the **App Name** box, type the following web app name: **blueyonder-flights**-*{YourInitials}*.
        >**Note**: The new web app name will be part of the URL.
    - In the **Resource Group**,  select **Create new** and type **Mod6Resource**.
    - Click **App Service plan/Location**, click **Create new**, open the**New App Service Plan** blade and provide the following information:
        - In the **App Service plan** box, type **Mod6Lab2ServicePlan**.
        - Click **Pricing tier**.
            - Select the **Production** tab.
            - In **Recommended pricing tiers**, select **S1**.
            - Click **Apply**. 
        - Click **OK**.
    - Click **Create** and wait until the app service is created.

#### Task 2: Configure environment variables in the production slot

1. To display all the app services, on the left menu panel, click **App Services**.
2. Click the **blueyonder-flights**-*{YourInitials}* app service.
3. In the **SETTINGS** section, on the left blade menu, click **Application settings**.
    - Locate **Application settings** and click **Add new setting** to add the following information:
        - In **Enter a name**, type **BLUEYONDER_TENANT**.
        - In **Enter a value**, type **Production**.
    - Click **Save**.

#### Task 3: Deploy an ASP.NET Core application to the production slot

1. To add credentials to the app service, under the **DEPLOYMENT** section, click **Deployment Center**, Select **FTP**, click **Dashboard** and then provide the following information:
    - In **FTP** pane click **User Credentials** , in username box type **FTPMod6Lab2**{YourInitials}.
    - In the **Password** and **Confirm password** boxes, type **Password99**.
    - Click **Save Credentials**.
    >**Note**: **Deployment credentials** give the options to deploy the app from the command prompt.
2. Open the command prompt.
3. To change the directory to the starter project, at the command prompt, run the following command:
    ```bash
    cd [Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod06\Labfiles\Exercise2\Starter
    ```
4. Open the project in Visual Studio Code, paste the following command, and then press Enter:
    ```bash
    code .
    ```
5. Expand the **BlueYonder.Flights.Service** project, expand the **Middleware** folder, and then select the **TenantMiddleware.cs** file.
6. To add the **X-Tenant-ID** header, locate the **Invoke** method and paste the following code:
    ```cs
    string tenant = _configuration["BLUEYONDER_TENANT"] ?? "Localhost";
    httpContext.Response.Headers.Add("X-Tenant-ID", tenant);
    ```
7. Right-click the **Properties** folder, select **New Folder**, and then name the folder **PublishProfiles**.
8. In **PublishProfiles**, add the file **Azure.pubxml** and double-click it.
9. In the new file, paste the following code:
    ```xml
    <Project>
        <PropertyGroup>
          <PublishProtocol>Kudu</PublishProtocol>
          <PublishSiteName>blueyonder-flights-{YourInitials}</PublishSiteName>
          <UserName>FTPMod6Lab2{YourInitials}</UserName>
          <Password>Password99</Password>
        </PropertyGroup>
    </Project>
    ```
    >**Note**: This file will have the information to deploy to Azure with the deployment credentials added in step 1.
10. To change the directory to the **BlueYonder.Flights.Service** project, at the command prompt, run the following command:
    ```bash
    cd BlueYonder.Flights.Service
    ```
11. To **publish** the project to azure, paste the following command:
    ```bash
    dotnet publish /p:PublishProfile=Azure /p:Configuration=Release
    ```
    > **Note**: If there is an error in the publish process, restart the  **blueyonder-flights-***{YourInitials}* app service.

#### Task 4: Run the application and verify its output

1. Open Microsoft Edge. 
2.  To open Developer Tools, on the top bar, click the three dots and select **Developer Tools**, or press F12.
3.  In **Developer Tools**, navigate to **Network**.
4.  Navigate to the following URL:
    ```url
    https://blueyonder-flights-{YourInitials}.azurewebsites.net/api/destinations
    ```
5.  In the **Network** tab, locate the URL and check the following information:
    - In the **Response Headers** section, locate the **X-Tenant-ID** and verify that the value is **Production**.

### Exercise 2: Create a staging slot

#### Task 1: Create a staging deployment slot

1. Switch to Azure Portal.
2. To display all the app services, on the left menu panel, click **App Services**.
3. Click the **blueyonder-flights**-*{YourInitials}* app service.
4. On the left blade menu under **DEPLOYMENT** section, click **Deployment slots**.
    - Click **Add Slot**:
        - In the **Name** box, type **Staging**.
        - In **Configuration Source**, select **blueyonder-flights**-*{YourInitials}*.
        - Click **OK**.

#### Task 2: Configure environment variables in the staging slot

1. In the **Deployment slots** blade, click **blueyonder-flights**-*{YourInitials}*-**staging**.
2. On the left blade menu, under the **SETTINGS** section, click **Application settings**.
3. In the **Application settings** section, locate **BLUEYONDER_TENANT** and change the value to **Staging**.
4. At the top of the blade, click **Save**.

#### Task 3: Deploy a newer version to the staging slot

1. Switch to Visual Studio Code.
2. Expand **Controllers** and double-click **DestinationsController.cs**.
3. To add more destinations, paste the following code in the constructor: 
    ```cs
    _destinations.Add(new Destination { Id = 6, CityName = "Milan", Airport = "Malpensa" });
    _destinations.Add(new Destination { Id = 7, CityName = "Rome", Airport = "Leonardo da Vinci-Fiumicino" });
    ```
4. Expand the **Properties** folder, right-click **PublishProfiles**, select **New File**, and then name it **Staging.pubxml**
5. In the new file, paste the following code:
    ```xml
    <Project>
        <PropertyGroup>
          <PublishProtocol>Kudu</PublishProtocol>
          <PublishSiteName>blueyonder-flights-{YourInitials}-staging</PublishSiteName>
          <UserName>FTPMod6Lab2{YourInitials}</UserName>
          <Password>Password99</Password>
        </PropertyGroup>
    </Project>
    ```
6. Switch to the command prompt.
7. To publish in the staging slot, at the command prompt, paste the following command:
    ```bash
    dotnet publish /p:PublishProfile=Staging /p:Configuration=Release
    ```
    > **Note**: If there is an error in the publish process, restart the **blueyonder-flights-**{YourInitials}**-staging** app services.

#### Task 4: Run the application from staging and verify its output

1. Open a new instance of Microsoft Edge. 
2.  To open **Developer Tools**, click the three dots on the top bar, and then select **Developer Tools**, or press F12.
3.  In **Developer Tools**, navigate to **Network**.
4.  Navigate to the following URL:
    ```url
    https://blueyonder-flights-{YourInitials}-staging.azurewebsites.net/api/destinations
    ```
5. View the response with all the destinations including Milan and Rome.
6.  In the **Network** tab, locate the URL and check the following info:
    - In the **Response Headers** section, locate **X-Tenant-ID** and verify that the value is **Staging**.


### Exercise 3: Swapping the Environments

#### Task 1: Perform a swap of the staging and production environments

1. Switch to Azure Portal.
2. To display all the app services, on the left menu panel, click **App Services**.
3. Click the **blueyonder-flights**-*{YourInitials}* app service.
4. In the **Overview** blade, on the top bar, click **Swap**.
5. In the **Swap** blade, add the following steps:
    - In **Swap type**, select **Swap**.
    - In **Source**, select **production**.
    - In **Destination**, select **Staging**.
    - Click **OK**. 

#### Task 2: Run the production application and verify its output

1. Switch to Microsoft Edge with the production URL (Exercise 1, Task 4).
2. To refresh the page, press F5.
3. View the response with all the destinations including Milan and Rome.
4.  In the **Network** tab, locate the URL and check the following information:
    - In the **Response Headers** section, locate **X-Tenant-ID** and verify that the value is **Staging**.
    >**Note**:  The **X-Tenant-ID** value is **Staging**  because the environment variable is not sticky to the slot mode.

#### Task 3: Undo the swap

1. Switch to Azure Portal.
2. To display all the app services, on the left menu panel, click **App Services**.
3. Click the **blueyonder-flights**-*{YourInitials}* app service.
4. In the **Overview** blade, on the top bar, click **Swap**.
5. In the **Swap** blade, add the following steps:
    - In **Swap type**, select **Swap**.
    - In **Source**, select **Staging**.
    - In **Destination**, select **production**.
    - Click **OK**. 
6. Switch to Microsoft Edge with the production URL (Exercise 3, Task 2).
7. To refresh the page, press F5.
8. View the response with all the destinations without Milan and Rome.
9.  In the **Network** tab, locate the URL and check the following information:
    - In the **Response Headers** section, locate **X-Tenant-ID** and verify that the value is **Production**.
   
#### Task 4: Configure the application settings as sticky to the slot

1. Switch to Azure Portal.
2. To display all the app services, on the left menu panel, click **App Services**.
3. Click the **blueyonder-flights**-*{YourInitials}* app service.
4. On the left blade menu, under the **SETTINGS** section, click **Application settings**.
5. In **Application settings**, locate **BLUEYONDER_TENANT** and select **SLOT SETTING**.
6. At the top of the blade, click **Save**.

#### Task 5: Redo the swap and re-test the output of the production slot

1. Switch to Azure Portal.
2. To display all the app services, on the left menu panel, click **App Services**.
3. Click the **blueyonder-flights**-*{YourInitials}* app service.
4. In the **Overview** blade, on the top bar, click **Swap**.
5. In the **Swap** blade, add the following steps:
    - In **Swap type**, select **Swap**.
    - In **Source**, select **production**.
    - In **Destination**, select **Staging**.
    - Click **OK**. 
6. Switch to Microsoft Edge with the production URL (Exercise 3, Task 2).
7. To refresh the page, press F5.
8. View the response with all the destinations including Milan and Rome.
9.  In the **Network** tab, locate the URL and check the following information:
    - In the **Response Headers** section, locate **X-Tenant-ID** and verify that the value is **Production**.
10. Close all open windows.

# Lab: Publishing a Web API with Azure API Management

### Preparation Steps

1. Start PowerShell as an administrator.
2. In the **User Account Control** modal, click **Yes**.
3. Run the following command **Install-Module azurerm -AllowClobber -MinimumVersion 5.4.1**.
   >**Note**: If prompted for to install NuGet provider type **Y** and then press **Enter**.
   
   >**Note**: If prompted for trust this repository type **A** and then press **Enter**.
4. To change directory run the following command:
   ```bash
   cd [repository root]\Mod06\Labfiles\Exercise3\Setup.
   ```
5. Run the following command:
    ```batch
     .\createAzureServices.ps1
    ```
6. You will be asked to supply a subscription ID, which you can get by performing the following steps:
    1. Open a browser and navigate to **http://portal.azure.com**. If a page appears asking for your email address, enter your email address and click **Continue**. Wait for the sign-in page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.
    2. In the search box on the top bar, enter **Cost** and then in the results, click **Cost Management + Billing(Preview)**. The **Cost Management + Billing** window appears.
    3. Under **Individual billing**, click **Subscriptions**.
    4.  You should have at least one subscription under **My subscriptions**. Click on the subscription that you want to use.
    5. Copy the value from **Subscription ID**, and then paste it at the PowerShell prompt. 
7. In the **Sign in** window that appears, enter your details and then sign in.
8. In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, follow the on-screen instructions. Wait for the deployment to complete successfully.
9.  Write the name of the Microsoft Azure App Service that is created.
10. Close the Administrator: PowerShell window.

### Exercise 1: Create an Azure API Management Instance

#### Task 1: Create an Azure API Management instance in the Azure Portal

1. Open Microsoft Edge.
2. Navigate to **https://portal.azure.com**.
3. If a page appears asking for your email address, enter your email address, click **Next**, enter your password, and then click **Sign In**.
4. If the **Stay signed in?** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.
   >**Note**: During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account that you previously used, and then continue to provide your credentials.
5. On the left menu panel, click **Create a resource**.
6. In the **Search** box, type **API management**, press **Enter**, from the **Everything** blade click **API management** and then click **Create**.
7. In the **API Management service** page, enter the following details:
   - Name: **blueyonder-api**{YourInitials}
   - Resource Group:
        - Select **Use existing**.
        - Select **Mod6Lab3-RG**.
   - Organization name: Enter the name of your organization
   - Click **Create**
    >**Note**: Wait until the API Management instance is created.
8. Click **All resources** and then select the new API Management instance that was created.

#### Task 2: Create an Azure API product and API manually

1. In the **API MANAGEMENT** section, click **Products**.
2. On the top menu bar, click **Add**, then add the following information:
    - In the **Display name** box, type **Blueyonder**.
    - In the **Description** box, type **Blueyonder API**.
    - Select **Requires subscription**.
    - Click **Create**.
3. In the **API MANAGEMENT** section, click **APIs**.
4. Click **Blank API**, then provide the following details:
    - In the **Display name** box, type **BlueYonder**.
    - In the **Name** box, type **blueyonder**.
    - In **Web service URL**, type **https://blueyonder{YourInitials}.azurewebsites.net/api**.
    - In the **Api URL suffix**box, type **api**.
    - In **Products**, select **blueyonder**.
    - Click **Create**.
5. To create the **GET destinations** operation, click **+ Add operation**, then provide the following details:
    - In the **Display name** box, type **Destinations**.
    - In the **Name** box, type **destinations**.
    - In **URL**,  select **GET** and type **/destinations**.
    - Click **Save**.
6. To create the **GET destinations by ID** operation, click **+ Add operation**, then provide the following details:
    - In the **Display name**, type **Destinations By ID**.
    - In **Name** box, type **destinations-by-id**.
    - In **URL**, select **GET** and type **/destinations/{id}**.
    - Select the **Template** tab, then provide the following details:
        - In the **Name**box, type **id**.
    - Click **Save**.

### Exercise 2: Testing and Managing the API

#### Task 1: Test the API from the Azure API Management portal

1. In the **BlueYonder** API, click **Destinations**.
2. In the **Destinations operation** blade, click the **Test** tab and then click **Destinations**.
3. To test the **GET Destinations** API, click **Send**.
4. Verify that the response is **200** with the list of destinations.
5. In the **BlueYonder** API, click **Destinations By ID**.
6. In the **Destinations By ID operation** blade, click the **Test** tab.
7. In the **Template parameters** section, in the **id** parameter, under **VALUE**, type **1**.  
8. To test the **GET Destinations by ID** API, click **Send**.
9. Verify that the response is **200** with the Seattle destination.

#### Task 2: Configure a caching policy for flight availability and weather information APIs

1. In the **BlueYonder** API, click **Destinations**.
2. Click the **Design** tab.
3. In the **Inbound processing** window, click the **+ Add policy**.
4. Select the **Cache response**, and then enter the following details:
    - In **Duration**, type **60**.
    - Click **Save**.
5. Click the **Test** tab and then click **Destinations**.
6. Click **Send**, and then click the **Trace** tab.
7. Verify that the **Backend** section exists and that the request was handled.
8. Click **Send**, and then click the **Trace** tab.
9. Verify that the **Backend** section does not exist and that the request was cached.

#### Task 3: Configure a request rate limit (throttling) for the flight availability API

1. In the **BlueYonder** API, click **Destinations By ID**.
2. Click the **Design** tab.
3. In the **Inbound processing** window, click ellipses(...) and then select **Code editor**.
4. Position the cursor inside the **\<inbound\>** element.
5. In the right window, under **Access restriction policies**, click **+ Limit call rate per key**.
6. In the **\<inbound\>** element, modify your **rate-limit-by-key** code  to the following code:
    ```xml
     <rate-limit-by-key calls="2" renewal-period="60" counter-key="@(context.Subscription.Id)" />
    ```
7. Click **Save**.

#### Task 4: Test the rate limit

1. In the **BlueYonder** API, click **Destinations By ID**.
2. Click the **Test** tab and then click **Destinations By ID**.
3. In the **Template parameters** section, in the **id** parameter, under **VALUE**, enter **1**.  
4. Press **Send** two times in a row.
5. After sending the request two times, you get a **429 Too many requests** response.
6. Wait for 60 seconds and then press **Send** again. This time you should get a **200 OK** response.
7. Close all windows.


©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
