# Module 09: Securing services on-premises and in Microsoft Azure

# Lab: Using ASP.NET Core Identity

1. Wherever a path to a file starts at *[Repository Root]*, replace it with the absolute path to the directory in which the 20487 repository resides. 
 For example, you cloned or extracted the 20487 repository to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487**, change the path: *[Repository Root]***\AllFiles\20487D\Mod01** to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487\AllFiles\20487D\Mod01**.
2. Wherever **{YourInitials}** appears, replace it with your actual initials. For example, the initials for **John Doe** will be **jd**.
3. Before performing the demonstration, you should allow some time for the provisioning of the different Microsoft Azure resources required for the demonstration. You should review the demonstrations before the actual class, identify the resources, and then prepare them beforehand to save classroom time.

### Exercise 1: Add ASP.NET Core Identity middleware

#### Task 1: Add ASP.NET Core Identity NuGet

1. Open the Command Prompt window.
2. To change the directory to the **Starter** project, run the following command:
    ```bash
    cd [Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod09\LabFiles\Lab1\Starter
    ```
3. Create a new **ASP.NET Core** project. At the command prompt, paste the following command, and then press Enter:
   ```bash
    dotnet new webapi --name Identity
   ``` 
2. To change the directory to the **Identity** project, run the following command:
    ```bash
    cd Identity
    ```
4. To use **Entity Framework Core**, install the following package from the command prompt:
   ```base
    dotnet add package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Sqlite
    dotnet restore
   ```
5. 


#### Task 2: Create a new DbInitializer with seed for users and groups

#### Task 3: Register ASP.NET Core Identity in the startup file


### Exercise 2: Add authorization code

#### Task 1: Add authorization attributes to controller


### Exercise 3: Run a client application to test the server

#### Task 1: Examine client code to retrieve access token

#### Task 2: Run client code and inspect user claims in the service


  ©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
