# Lab: Caching out-of-process with Azure Redis cache

### Preparation Steps

1. Open **PowerShell** as **Administrator**.
2. In the **User Account Control** modal, click **Yes**.
3. Run the following command: **Install-Module azurerm -AllowClobber -MinimumVersion 5.4.1**.
4. Navigate to **[repository root]\Mod07\Labfiles\Lab3\Setup**.
5. Run the following command:
    ```batch
     .\createAzureServices.ps1
    ```
6. You will be asked to supply a **Subscription ID**, which you can get by performing the following steps:
    1. Open a browser and nevigate to **http://portal.azure.com**. If a page appears, asking for your email address, type your email address, and then click Continue. Wait for the sign-in page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click Sign In.
    2. In the search text box on the top bar, type **Cost** and then in results click **Cost Management + Billing(Preview)**. The **Cost Management + Billing** window should open.
    3. Under **BILLING ACCOUNT**, click **Subscriptions**.
    4. Under **My subscriptions**, you should have at least one subscription. Click on the subscription that you want to use.
    5. Copy the value from **Subscription ID**, and then paste it at the **PowerShell** prompt. 
7. In the **Sign in** window that appears, enter your details, and then sign in.
8. In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, follow the on-screen instructions. Wait for the deployment to complete successfully.
9. Write down the name of the Azure App Service that is created.
10. Close **PowerShell** window.

### Exercise 1: Create the Azure Redis Cache service

#### Task 1: Create the Azure Redis Cache service

1. Open **Microsoft Edge** browser.
2. Navigate to **https://portal.azure.com**.
3. If a page appears asking for your email address, enter your email address, and then click **Next** and enter your password, and then click **Sign In**.
4. If the **Stay signed in?** dialog appears, click **Yes**.
   >**Note**: During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account that you previously used, and then continue to provide your credentials.
5. Click **+ Create a resource** on the left menu panel.
6. Type in the search box **Redis Cache** and click on **Create** then add the following information:
    - In **DNS name** type **blueyonder-cache**{YourInitials}
    - In **Resource Group** select **Create new** and type **Mod07Lab3**.
    - Click on **Create**.

#### Task 2: Locate the service key 

7. Click on **All resource** on the left menu panel, to display all the **Resources**.
8. Click on **blueyonder-cache**{YourInitials}.
9. Click on **Access keys** in the **SETTINGS** section.
10. Copy the **Primary connection string (StackExchange.Redis)** to the next exercise

### Exercise 2: Access the cache service from code

#### Task 1: Install the StackExchange.Redis NuGet package

1. Open **Command Line**.
2. Run the following command to change directory to the **BlueYonder.Flights.Service** service:
    ```bash
    cd [Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod07\LabFiles\Lab3\Starter\BlueYonder.Flights\BlueYonder.Flights.Service
    ```
3. Install the following package **StackExchange.Redis**:
   ```bash
    dotnet add package StackExchange.Redis --version=1.2.6
   ```

#### Task 2: Configure the cache credentials

1. Run the following command to open the project in **VSCode**:
    ```bash
    code .
    ```
2. Expand **BlueYonder.Flights.Service** folder then click on **appsettings.json** file.
3. Paste the following code to add redis connection string:
    ```json
    "RedisConnectionString": "[RedisConnectionString]"
    ```
    replace the value with connection string from the previous exercise

#### Task 3: Add code to use the cache service

1. Click on **Startup** file.
2. Paste the following **using** to use **Redis** package:
    ```cs
    using StackExchange.Redis;
    ```
3. Locate the **ConfigureServices** method and paste the following code:
    ```cs
    services.AddSingleton<IConnectionMultiplexer>(ConnectionMultiplexer.Connect(Configuration["RedisConnectionString"]));
    ```
    **IConnectionMultiplexer** is injected with a connection to the Redis in Azure
4. Exapnd **Controllers** folder then click on **FlightsController**.
5. Paste the following code to add **IDatabase** field:
    ```cs
    private readonly IDatabase _redisDB;
    ```
6. Replace the constructor with the fllowing code to inject **IConnectionMultiplexer**
    ```cs
    public FlightsController(IConnectionMultiplexer connectionMultiplexer, IFlightsRepository flightsRepository)
    {
        _flightsRepository = flightsRepository;
         _redisDB = connectionMultiplexer.GetDatabase();
    }
    ```
7. Locate the **Get** method with **source** and **destination** paramters.
8. Paste the following code to add key to check in the **redis** cache:
    ```cs
    var key = source + destination + date.Date.ToShortDateString();
    ```
9. Paste the following code to check if the key is exist in the **redis** cache:
    ```cs
    var cacheResult = _redisDB.StringGet(key);
    ```
10. Paste the following code if the key dont exist:
    ```cs
    if (!cacheResult.HasValue)
    {
        var result = _flightsRepository.GetFlightByDate(sourcedestination, date);
        if (result == null)
            return NotFound();
        _redisDB.StringSet(key,JsonConvert.SerializeObject(result));
        return Ok(result);
    }
    ```
    if the key dont exist in the **redis** cache then get the data from the database and add new key and data to **redis** cache
11. Paste the following code if the key is exist 
    ```cs
    Request.HttpContext.Response.Headers.Add("X-Cache","true");
    return Ok(cacheResult.ToString());
    ```
    Then add **header** that the data is cached and return the data

#### Task 4: Configure the web application to disable instance affinity

1. Switch to **Azure Portal**.
2. Click on **App Serive** in the left menu.
3. Click on **blueyondermod07lab03**{YourInitials}.
4. Click on **Scale up (App Service plan)** in the **SETTING** section:
    - Select on **Dev/Test** tab.
        - Select **B1** box.
    - Click on **Apply**. 
5. Click on **Scale out (App Service plan)** in the **SETTING** section:
    - Select **Configure** tab.
        - Locate the **Instance count** and change it to **2**.
        > **Note:** now there is two **BlueYonder.Flights.Service**.
    - Click on **Save**.
6. Click on **Application settings** in the **SETTING** section:
    - Locate the **ARR affinity** and turn it **Off**.
    - Click on **Save**.

#### Task 5: Deploy the application to a scaled Azure Web App

1. Switch to **Command Line**.
1. Paste the following command to publish the service:
    ```bash
    dotnet publish /p:PublishProfile=Azure /p:Configuration=Release
    ```

### Exercise 3: Test the application

#### Task 1: Run the application multiple times

1. Open **Microsoft Edge**  browser. 
2.  Open **Develpper Tools** by click on the three dot on the top bar and then select **Develpper Tools** or by pressing **F12**.
4.  In the **Develpper Tools** navigate to **Network**.
5.  Navigate to the following url:
    ```url
    https://blueyondermod07lab3{YourInitials}.azurewebsites.net/api/flights
    ```
6. View the respone with all the flights.
7.  In **Network** tab locate the url and check the following info:
    - Locate the **X-BlueYonder-Server** in **Response Headers** section and check the server name.


#### Task 2: Verify you are accessing multiple instances

1. Refresh the page couple of times and check that **X-BlueYonder-Server** header is change 

#### Task 3: Verify you are getting the cached data

5.  Navigate to the following url:
    ```url
    https://blueyondermod07lab3{YourInitials}.azurewebsites.net/api/flights/New York/Paris/MM-DD-YYYY
    ```
    replace the end of the url with the current date
6. In **Network** tab locate the url and check the following info:
    - Try to locate the **X-Cache** header in **Response Headers** section.
    - If you dont see the header the mean that the result is not cached
7. Refresh the page and get the **X-Cache** header.
8. Refresh the page couple of times and check that **X-BlueYonder-Server** is change and that the result are **cached**.